ai_workflows/README.md, before:

# AI Workflows for Ableton Rack Analysis

This directory contains scripts and utilities for integrating Ableton rack data with AI workflows, specifically using FlowiseAI.

## Setup

### 1. Deploy FlowiseAI on Railway

1. Go to the [FlowiseAI with Workers template](https://railway.app/template/pn4G8S)
2. Click "Deploy on Railway"
3. Configure the environment variables:
   - Set a secure `FLOWISE_USERNAME` and `FLOWISE_PASSWORD`
   - Note the generated URL for your FlowiseAI instance

### 2. Install Dependencies

```bash
pip install requests numpy
```

### 3. Configure Environment Variables

Create a `.env` file in the project root:

```bash
FLOWISE_API_URL=https://your-flowise-instance.railway.app
FLOWISE_API_KEY=your-api-key-if-configured
```

## Usage

### Preparing Rack Data

The `prepare_rack_data.py` script processes your Ableton rack files and extracts features for AI training:

```bash
# Process all racks in a directory
python ai_workflows/scripts/prepare_rack_data.py /path/to/rack/files

# Process and create train/validation splits
python ai_workflows/scripts/prepare_rack_data.py /path/to/rack/files --split

# Specify custom output directory
python ai_workflows/scripts/prepare_rack_data.py /path/to/rack/files --output-dir custom/output
```

This will create a `rack_dataset.json` file containing:
- Extracted features from each rack (macros, chains, devices)
- Metadata for searching and filtering
- Error logs for any failed processing

### Integrating with FlowiseAI

The `flowise_integration.py` script provides tools to:

1. **Create AI Workflows**: Set up chatflows for rack analysis
2. **Upload Data**: Send your rack data to FlowiseAI for processing
3. **Query Insights**: Ask questions about your rack collection

```python
from ai_workflows.scripts.flowise_integration import FlowiseAIClient, RackDataFlowiseAdapter

# Initialize client
client = FlowiseAIClient()
adapter = RackDataFlowiseAdapter(client)

# Create a chatflow for rack analysis
chatflow = adapter.create_rack_analysis_chatflow()

# Upload your rack dataset
results = adapter.upload_rack_dataset("ai_workflows/data/rack_dataset.json")

# Query for insights
response = adapter.query_rack_insights(
    chatflow['id'], 
    "What are the most common macro configurations?"
)
```

## AI Workflow Examples

### 1. Rack Pattern Analysis
- Identify common device combinations
- Find similar racks based on structure
- Suggest macro naming conventions

### 2. Rack Optimization
- Recommend device order improvements
- Identify redundant chains
- Suggest parameter optimizations

### 3. Rack Generation
- Generate new rack ideas based on existing patterns
- Create variations of successful racks
- Suggest macro mappings

## Data Structure

The processed rack data includes:

```json
{
  "rack_name": "Bass Wobble",
  "num_macros": 8,
  "num_chains": 3,
  "total_devices": 12,
  "device_types": ["EQ Eight", "Compressor", "Reverb"],
  "macro_names": ["Cutoff", "Resonance", "Drive", ...],
  "macro_values": [0.5, 0.3, 0.7, ...],
  "chain_names": ["Low", "Mid", "High"],
  "device_type_counts": {
    "EQ Eight": 3,
    "Compressor": 2,
    "Reverb": 1
  }
}
```

## Next Steps

1. **Deploy FlowiseAI**: Get your instance running on Railway
2. **Process Your Racks**: Run the data preparation script on your rack collection
3. **Create Workflows**: Design custom AI workflows in FlowiseAI UI
4. **Train Models**: Use the processed data to train specialized models
5. **Build Applications**: Create tools that leverage AI insights about your racks

## Advanced Usage

### Custom Feature Extraction

Modify `extract_features()` in `prepare_rack_data.py` to add custom features:

```python
def extract_features(self, rack_data):
    features = super().extract_features(rack_data)
    
    # Add custom features
    features["has_sidechain"] = self.detect_sidechain(rack_data)
    features["complexity_score"] = self.calculate_complexity(rack_data)
    
    return features
```

### Batch Processing

For large collections, use batch processing:

```bash
# Process in parallel
find /path/to/racks -name "*.adg" | parallel -j 4 python process_single_rack.py {}
```

### Integration with Your Backend

Connect the AI insights to your existing Flask backend:

```python
# In your Flask app
@app.route('/api/rack/<rack_id>/ai-insights')
@jwt_required()
def get_ai_insights(rack_id):
    rack_data = db.get_rack(rack_id)
    insights = flowise_adapter.get_rack_insights(rack_data)
    return jsonify(insights)
```

Commit message:

Add MongoDB to FlowiseAI sync integration
Introduces a new script and adapter class to sync racks from MongoDB to FlowiseAI, enabling AI-powered search and analysis. Updates the README with setup and usage instructions for the new workflow. Enhances flowise_integration.py with MongoDBFlowiseAdapter for direct integration and data conversion.

ai_workflows/README.md, after:

# AI Workflows for Ableton Rack Analysis

This directory contains scripts and utilities for integrating Ableton rack data with AI workflows, specifically using FlowiseAI.

## Setup

### 1. Deploy FlowiseAI on Railway

1. Go to the [FlowiseAI with Workers template](https://railway.app/template/pn4G8S)
2. Click "Deploy on Railway"
3. Configure the environment variables:
   - Set a secure `FLOWISE_USERNAME` and `FLOWISE_PASSWORD`
   - Note the generated URL for your FlowiseAI instance

### 2. Install Dependencies

```bash
pip install requests numpy
```

### 3. Configure Environment Variables

Since FlowiseAI is deployed in the same Railway project as your MongoDB, it will automatically have access to the MongoDB connection. However, you need to set the FlowiseAI URL.

Create a `.env` file in the project root:

```bash
# FlowiseAI instance URL from Railway
FLOWISE_API_URL=https://your-flowise-instance.railway.app
FLOWISE_API_KEY=your-api-key-if-configured

# MongoDB connection (already set in Railway, but needed for local testing)
MONGO_URL=mongodb+srv://...
```

**Note**: In Railway, FlowiseAI will automatically have access to the `MONGO_URL` environment variable from your MongoDB service.

## Usage

### Syncing MongoDB to FlowiseAI

Since you already have racks stored in MongoDB, you can sync them directly to FlowiseAI:

```bash
# Run the sync script
python ai_workflows/scripts/sync_mongodb_to_flowise.py
```

This interactive script will:
1. Connect to your existing MongoDB database
2. Connect to your FlowiseAI instance
3. Create AI workflows for rack analysis
4. Sync your racks from MongoDB to FlowiseAI
5. Enable AI-powered search and analysis

The script uses the `MongoDBFlowiseAdapter` class which:
- Reads racks directly from your MongoDB database
- Converts them to FlowiseAI-compatible format
- Preserves all metadata (producer name, tags, download count, etc.)
- Links back to the original MongoDB documents

### Preparing Rack Data

The `prepare_rack_data.py` script processes your Ableton rack files and extracts features for AI training:

```bash
# Process all racks in a directory
python ai_workflows/scripts/prepare_rack_data.py /path/to/rack/files

# Process and create train/validation splits
python ai_workflows/scripts/prepare_rack_data.py /path/to/rack/files --split

# Specify custom output directory
python ai_workflows/scripts/prepare_rack_data.py /path/to/rack/files --output-dir custom/output
```

This will create a `rack_dataset.json` file containing:
- Extracted features from each rack (macros, chains, devices)
- Metadata for searching and filtering
- Error logs for any failed processing

### Integrating with FlowiseAI

The `flowise_integration.py` script provides tools to:

1. **Create AI Workflows**: Set up chatflows for rack analysis
2. **Upload Data**: Send your rack data to FlowiseAI for processing
3. **Query Insights**: Ask questions about your rack collection

```python
from ai_workflows.scripts.flowise_integration import FlowiseAIClient, RackDataFlowiseAdapter

# Initialize client
client = FlowiseAIClient()
adapter = RackDataFlowiseAdapter(client)

# Create a chatflow for rack analysis
chatflow = adapter.create_rack_analysis_chatflow()

# Upload your rack dataset
results = adapter.upload_rack_dataset("ai_workflows/data/rack_dataset.json")

# Query for insights
response = adapter.query_rack_insights(
    chatflow['id'], 
    "What are the most common macro configurations?"
)
```

## AI Workflow Examples

### 1. Rack Pattern Analysis
- Identify common device combinations
- Find similar racks based on structure
- Suggest macro naming conventions

### 2. Rack Optimization
- Recommend device order improvements
- Identify redundant chains
- Suggest parameter optimizations

### 3. Rack Generation
- Generate new rack ideas based on existing patterns
- Create variations of successful racks
- Suggest macro mappings

## Data Structure

The processed rack data includes:

```json
{
  "rack_name": "Bass Wobble",
  "num_macros": 8,
  "num_chains": 3,
  "total_devices": 12,
  "device_types": ["EQ Eight", "Compressor", "Reverb"],
  "macro_names": ["Cutoff", "Resonance", "Drive", ...],
  "macro_values": [0.5, 0.3, 0.7, ...],
  "chain_names": ["Low", "Mid", "High"],
  "device_type_counts": {
    "EQ Eight": 3,
    "Compressor": 2,
    "Reverb": 1
  }
}
```

## Next Steps

1. **Deploy FlowiseAI**: Get your instance running on Railway
2. **Process Your Racks**: Run the data preparation script on your rack collection
3. **Create Workflows**: Design custom AI workflows in FlowiseAI UI
4. **Train Models**: Use the processed data to train specialized models
5. **Build Applications**: Create tools that leverage AI insights about your racks

## Advanced Usage

### Custom Feature Extraction

Modify `extract_features()` in `prepare_rack_data.py` to add custom features:

```python
def extract_features(self, rack_data):
    features = super().extract_features(rack_data)
    
    # Add custom features
    features["has_sidechain"] = self.detect_sidechain(rack_data)
    features["complexity_score"] = self.calculate_complexity(rack_data)
    
    return features
```

### Batch Processing

For large collections, use batch processing:

```bash
# Process in parallel
find /path/to/racks -name "*.adg" | parallel -j 4 python process_single_rack.py {}
```

### Integration with Your Backend

Connect the AI insights to your existing Flask backend:

```python
# In your Flask app
@app.route('/api/rack/<rack_id>/ai-insights')
@jwt_required()
def get_ai_insights(rack_id):
    rack_data = db.get_rack(rack_id)
    insights = flowise_adapter.get_rack_insights(rack_data)
    return jsonify(insights)
```
